---
title: 'Shuntaro Sasai, Junichi Chikazoe and Hiro Hamada at 
      the Academy for Applied Neuroscience'
type: talk
date: '2023-02-17'
image: can.jpg
draft: false
---

The Academy for Applied Neuroscience will host a seminar on 
“Initiatives and Future Prospects of Neurotech Business in Araya: 
Araya Inc.” on February 17th. 
Shuntaro Sasai, Junichi Chikazoe and Hiro Hamada are invited to 
give lectures.

Three lecturers involved in Araya’s Neurotech business will give 
an overview of the Neurotech business, the research and development 
that supports the business, and its future prospects. 
First, they will introduce the services and products currently 
offered by Araya’s Neurotech business. 
In parallel with this, they will share information on the current 
status of the development of a next-generation Brain-Computer 
Interface using various brain-sensing technologies, which is being
developed from a mid-to-long-term perspective. 
The company is also promoting the development of diagnostic imaging 
technology for neuropsychiatric disorders that combines AI and 
neuroscience and will present newly developed diagnostic methods, 
recommendation algorithms using artificial neural circuits, and 
research on the correspondence between artificial neural circuits 
and brain circuits. 
The presentation will also provide an overview of the problems 
involved in acquiring and aggregating data to scale the neurotech 
market and how to solve these problems. 
Although the acquisition and utilization of large amounts of data 
are essential to improve the quality of neurotech services and 
products, there is the problem of privacy, which makes it difficult 
to collect data. 
This session will look at three technologies to solve this problem: 
neuro twin, which mimics brain activity; distributed data infrastructure, 
where individuals are in charge of data management; and federated 
learning, where privacy is taken into account and learning is conducted 
at the edge. 
(From the Consortium for Applied Neuroscience website.)

**Related links**
- Consortium for Applied Neuroscience: https://www.can-neuro.org
