---
title: Luca Nunziante at SII 2025 
type: talk
date: '2025-01-21'
image: sii2025.jpg
draft: false
---
Luca Nunziante gave a presentation at the 2025 IEEE/SICE International 
Symposium on System Integrations (SII 2025) which took place in Munich, 
Germany, in the session on “Human-Robot Interaction II”.

Luca discussed the following:

Title: Improving Low-Cost Teleoperation: Augmenting GELLO with Force

Abstract: In this work we extend the low-cost GELLO teleoperation system, 
initially designed for joint position control, with additional force 
information. 
Our first extension is to implement force feedback, allowing users to feel 
resistance when interacting with the environment. 
Our second extension is to add force information into the data collection 
process and training of imitation learning models. 
We validate our additions by implementing these on a GELLO system with a 
Franka Panda arm as the follower robot, performing a user study, and 
comparing the performance of policies trained with and without force 
information on a range of simulated and real dexterous manipulation tasks. 
Qualitatively, users with robotics experience preferred our controller, 
and the addition of force inputs improved task success on the majority of 
tasks.

In the future, the Reinforcement Learning team plans to further investigate 
the effect of force information in Imitation Learning. 
More details about the team’s research and achievements can be found here.

**Related links**
- Event page: https://sice-si.org/SII2025/
