---
title: "A Paper by Araya’s Reinforcement Learning Team in Frontiers 
 in Computational Neuroscience"
publishDate: 2024-06-21
# updated: 2024-06-21
author: "Araya"
category: "Press Release"
tags: ["Computational Neuroscience", "Global Workspace", "reinforcement 
 learning"]
draft: false
summary: "Paper on a ‘global workspace’ agent embodied in a realistic 
 multi‑modal environment."
image: gwagent.jpg
---
A paper titled “Design and evaluation of a global workspace agent 
embodied in a realistic multimodal environment” first-authored by 
Rousslan Dossa was published in the journal “Frontiers in Computational 
Neuroscience”.

**Background**
To understand the essence of consciousness, deeper investigations of its 
underlying mechanisms are required. 
This involves formulating hypotheses about how consciousness works and 
conducting experiments to test them. 
While some theories of consciousness can be implemented in artificial 
agents, they are typically tested in simplified settings.

**Summary**
Researchers at Araya Inc., Tokyo, Japan, in collaboration with Microsoft 
Research, New York, United States, have developed an artificial agent 
that fulfills criteria for the Global Workspace Theory (*1) and tested 
the agent on a navigation task within a photorealistic 3D simulator, 
where the agent has to follow sounds to the goal location. 
The results showed that, at smaller working memory sizes, the Global 
Workspace agent performed better than standard agents without the Global 
Workspace module, while these performance differences disappeared at 
larger memory sizes.

The agent navigates to the target in the room as shown in the map (right) 
based on its memory of a brief audio signal (left) and visual observations 
(middle).

This research underscores the importance of testing consciousness theories 
in more realistic settings. 
The successful implementation of Global Workspace Theory in a complex 
environment marks a significant step forward in understanding consciousness 
through artificial agents.

The researchers have open-sourced their code to encourage further exploration 
and development in this field. 
The code can be accessed at GitHub.

Future Prospects
This study provides evidence of the potential benefits of agents implementing 
the Global Workspace Theory. 
Additionally, it has opened new avenues for how theories of consciousness 
can be studied in artificial agents.

**Glossary**
*1) Global Workspace Theory: one of the leading theoretical frameworks for 
understanding how consciousness operates in the human brain.


**Related links**
- Research Article: https://www.frontiersin.org/journals/computational-neuroscience/articles/10.3389/fncom.2024.1352685/full
- Code: https://github.com/arayabrain/multimodal-global-workspace-agent
